hi I'm Jay from e2 language one of the
biggest problems students face in PT
right si and IELTS writing task 2 is
generating ideas if you can't generate
good ideas then you won't get a high
score let me tell you why the importance
of good ideas ideas precede language
ideas come before language in other
words you have an idea and then the
language will follow it the language
will describe your idea so the clear and
your idea in your mind the clearer your
language will be on the page you cannot
get a high Pte or IELTS score if your
ideas are unclear clear writing comes
from clear ideas you need to know where
you're going and how to get there you
need three clear ideas when you look at
the question prompt whether it be the
Pte question prompt or the IELTS
question prompt you need to have three
ideas you need to ask yourself three
simple questions question 1 what's my
overall opinion the first thing you
should think when you look at the
question prompt is
what's my overall opinion look at this
question prompt and ask yourself what
your overall opinion is studying history
has a little value in the modern world
what do you think do you agree do you
disagree or do you have a more nuanced
opinion where you might kind of agree
and kind of disagree whatever the case
may be you need to have one of those
three opinions studying history has
little value in the modern world I agree
studying history is a waste of time I
disagree studying history is important
I kind of agree that studying history
can be a waste of time but I kind of
agree that studying history can be
important too to put it simply when you
look at a question prompt you need to a
agree be disagree or see see both sides
your overall opinion is your conclusion
the first question of what's my overall
opinion is extremely important for two
reasons first you have just thought of
your conclusion the answer to your first
question will become the final sentence
of your essay secondly that question is
important because now that you know what
your conclusion is you have a path
forward you know where you're going you
are not going around and round in
circles writing while thinking question
2 why do I agree or disagree let's look
at the question prompt again studying
history has little value in the modern
worlds it doesn't matter in the Pte or
alt whether you agree or disagree or
have a nuanced opinion you're allowed to
think what you want
you're not graded on your opinion you
are however graded on your language use
but remember that there is a direct
connection between clear ideas and clear
writing so while it doesn't matter what
you think your ideas must be clear so
that your writing is clear if you looked
at the question prompt and agreed that
history is a waste of time
then now you need to come up with a good
reason why this will be your paragraphs
1 and if you looked at the question
prompt and disagreed and thought history
is important you now need to explain why
this is your paragraph 1 and if you
looked at the question prompt and
thought seemed like kind of agree in
this
agree then you should come up with your
first reason why you agree or disagree
don't mix your ideas this is your
paragraph 1 question 3 why do I agree or
disagree you need to ask yourself the
exact same question to come up with the
clear idea for your paragraph 2 however
make sure that your second idea is
distinct very different from your first
idea you don't want to repeat yourself
if you can't think of a second distinct
idea then stop think wait it will come
to you recap so I'm sitting in the PTA
exam in front of the computer or I'm
sitting in the IELTS exam if the pencil
in my hand and the question prompt is in
front of me I have two options I can
start writing without thinking and risk
getting a low score or I can stop and
think for a minute and radically boost
my grades I need to ask myself three
questions I firstly need to ask myself
what's my overall opinion I do this to
cut a path to the conclusion so I know
where I'm going so I don't write without
purpose I can fully agree I can fully
disagree or I can go half half I then
ask myself why do I agree or why do I
disagree which becomes my first
paragraph I then ask myself again why do
I agree or why do I disagree which
becomes my second paragraph but this
idea it needs to be very different from
your first idea all up these thought
processes will take you less than a
minute but they will profoundly change
the way that you write I know you'll be
nervous in the exam but you need to stop
and think questions cool we have a
couple of questions from our e to users
colored from Egypt asks
do the stop and think questions apply to
all the ions question prompts the answer
to this one is that stopping and
thinking applies to all question prompts
both Pte and ions the questions you ask
yourself may need to change for the
IELTS because the question prompts don't
just ask whether you agree or disagree
or your opinion but they also ask you to
think about the advantages and
disadvantages or the problem in the
solution in which case you just change
the question you ask yourself slightly
Bianca from Brazil asks won't the stop
and think method waste valuable writing
time think about it this way spending
one minute thinking about the question
prompt and asking yourself three simple
questions will actually save you time
because you will know where you're going
and you will know how to get there it's
like knowing the directions to a
destination it's much quicker to get to
a friend's house for example if you know
the address and the fastest roads to get
there et tu language comm now you should
try to implement this method go to WWE -
language comm to sign up for free